# Default password policy for a new domain
The default password policy when a new domain is created is as follows, and there have been plenty of organizations that never changed this policy:

|Policy|Default Value|
|---|---|
|Enforce password history|24 days|
|Maximum password age|42 days|
|Minimum password age|1 day|
|Minimum password length|7|
|Password must meet complexity requirements|Enabled|
|Store passwords using reversible encryption|Disabled|
|Account lockout duration|Not set|
|Account lockout threshold|0|
|Reset account lockout counter after|Not set|

# With Valid Credentials
With valid domain credentials, the password policy can also be obtained remotely using tools such as [CrackMapExec](https://github.com/byt3bl33d3r/CrackMapExec) or `rpcclient`.

# Without Valid credentials
Without credentials, we may be able to obtain the password policy via an SMB NULL session or LDAP anonymous bind. 

## SMB NULL SESSION
SMB NULL sessions allow an unauthenticated attacker to retrieve information from the domain, such as a complete listing of users, groups, computers, user account attributes, and the domain password policy. SMB NULL session misconfigurations are often the result of legacy Domain Controllers being upgraded in place, ultimately bringing along insecure configurations, which existed by default in older versions of Windows Server.

When creating a domain in earlier versions of Windows Server, anonymous access was granted to certain shares, which allowed for domain enumeration. An SMB NULL session can be enumerated easily. For enumeration, we can use tools such as `enum4linux`, `CrackMapExec`, `rpcclient`, etc.

#### Enum4Linux
 `enum4linux` is a tool built around the [Samba suite of tools](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/samba.7.html) `nmblookup`, `net`, `rpcclient` and `smbclient` to use for enumeration of windows hosts and domains. It can be found pre-installed on many different penetration testing distros, including Parrot Security Linux. Below we have an example output displaying information that can be provided by `enum4linux`. Here are some common enumeration tools and the ports they use:

|Tool|Ports|
|---|---|
|nmblookup|137/UDP|
|nbtstat|137/UDP|
|net|139/TCP, 135/TCP, TCP and UDP 135 and 49152-65535|
|rpcclient|135/TCP|
|smbclient|445/TCP|

The tool [enum4linux-ng](https://github.com/cddmp/enum4linux-ng) is a rewrite of `enum4linux` in Python, but has additional features such as the ability to export data as YAML or JSON files which can later be used to process the data further or feed it to other tools. It also supports colored output, among other features

## LDAP Anonymous bind
[LDAP anonymous binds](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/anonymous-ldap-operations-active-directory-disabled) allow unauthenticated attackers to retrieve information from the domain, such as a complete listing of users, groups, computers, user account attributes, and the domain password policy. This is a legacy configuration, and as of Windows Server 2003, only authenticated users are permitted to initiate LDAP requests. We still see this configuration from time to time as an admin may have needed to set up a particular application to allow anonymous binds and given out more than the intended amount of access, thereby giving unauthenticated users access to all objects in AD.

With an LDAP anonymous bind, we can use LDAP-specific enumeration tools such as `windapsearch.py`, `ldapsearch`, `ad-ldapdomaindump.py`, etc., to pull the password policy.
