### Tasks
- Enumerate the internal network, identifying hosts, critical services, and potential avenues for a foothold.
- This can include active and passive measures to identify users, hosts, and vulnerabilities we may be able to take advantage of to further our access.
- Document any findings we come across for later use. Extremely important!

### Key Data Points
|**Data Point**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`AD Users`|We are trying to enumerate valid user accounts we can target for password spraying.|
|`AD Joined Computers`|Key Computers include Domain Controllers, file servers, SQL servers, web servers, Exchange mail servers, database servers, etc.|
|`Key Services`|Kerberos, NetBIOS, LDAP, DNS|
|`Vulnerable Hosts and Services`|Anything that can be a quick win. ( a.k.a an easy host to exploit and gain a foothold)|

## TTPs
Enumerating an AD environment can be overwhelming if just approached without a plan. There is an abundance of data stored in AD, and it can take a long time to sift if not looked at in progressive stages, and we will likely miss things. We need to set a game plan for ourselves and tackle it piece by piece. Everyone works in slightly different ways, so as we gain more experience, we'll start to develop our own repeatable methodology that works best for us. Regardless of how we proceed, we typically start in the same place and look for the same data points. We will experiment with many tools in this section and subsequent ones. It is important to reproduce every example and even try to recreate examples with different tools to see how they work differently, learn their syntax, and find what approach works best for us.

We will start with `passive` identification of any hosts in the network, followed by `active` validation of the results to find out more about each host (what services are running, names, potential vulnerabilities, etc.). Once we know what hosts exist, we can proceed with probing those hosts, looking for any interesting data we can glean from them. After we have accomplished these tasks, we should stop and regroup and look at what info we have. At this time, we'll hopefully have a set of credentials or a user account to target for a foothold onto a domain-joined host or have the ability to begin credentialed enumeration from our Linux attack host.