
	
<h2> <span style="color:red" > 1. Signature based Detection </span> </h2>
An antivirus signature is a continuous sequence of bytes within malware that uniquely identifies it. Signature-based antivirus detection is mostly considered a blacklist technology. In other words, the filesystem is scanned for known malware signatures and if any are detected, the offending files are quarantined.

This implies that, with correct tools, we can bypass antivirus software that relies on this detection method fairly easily. Specifically, we can bypass signature-based detection by simply changing or obfuscating the contents of a known malicious file in order to break the identifying byte sequence (or signature).

Since antivirus software vendors use different signatures and proprietary technologies to detect malware, and each vendor updates their databases constantly, it’s usually difficult to come up with a catch-all antivirus evasion solution. Quite often, <b>this process is based on a trial-and-error approach</b> in a test environment.

<h2> <span style="color:red" > 2. Heuristic and Behavioral-Based Detection</span> </h2>
To address the pitfalls of signature-based detection, antivirus manufacturers introduced additional detection methods to improve the effectiveness of their products.

<b>Heuristic-Based Detection</b> is a detection method that relies on various rules and algorithms to determine whether or not an action is considered malicious. This is often achieved by stepping through the instruction set of a binary file or by attempting to decompile and then analyze the source code. The idea is to look for various patterns and program calls (as opposed to simple byte sequences) that are considered malicious.

Alternatively, <b> Behavior-Based Detection </b> dynamically analyzes the behavior of a binary file. This is often achieved by executing the file in question in an emulated environment, such as a small virtual machine, and looking for behaviors or actions that are considered malicious.

It’s worth noting that the majority of antivirus developers use a combination of these detection methods to achieve higher detection rates.

