<h2> <span style="color:red" >  General elements </span> </h2>

Generally speaking, antivirus evasion falls into two broad categories: 
- on-disk
- in-memory.

<b> On-disk </b> evasion focuses on modifying malicious files physically stored on disk in an attempt to evade AV detection.
<b> Modern malware often attempts in-memory operation </b>, avoiding the disk entirely and therefore reducing the possibility of being detected.

<h2> <span style="color:red" >  1. On Disk Evasion</span> </h2>
<h3> A. Packers </h3>
One of the earliest ways of avoiding detection involved the use of packers.
Unlike modern “zip” compression techniques, packers generate an executable that is not only smaller, but is also functionally equivalent with a completely new binary structure.
The resultant file has a new signature and as a result, can effectively bypass older and more simplistic AV scanners.

<h3> B. Obfuscators </h3>
Obfuscators reorganize and mutate code in a way that makes it more difficult to reverse-engineer. 
Although primarily used by software developers to protect their intellectual property, this technique is also marginally effective against signature-based AV detection.

<h3> C. Crypters </h3>

“Crypter” software cryptographically alters executable code, adding a decrypting stub that restores the original code upon execution. 
This decryption happens in-memory, leaving only the encrypted code on-disk. 
Encryption has become foundational in modern malware as one of the most effective AV evasion techniques.

<h3> D. Software Protectors </h3>
Highly effective antivirus evasion requires a combination of all of the previous techniques in addition to other advanced ones, including anti-reversing, anti-debugging, virtual machine emulation detection, and so on. In most cases, software protectors were designed for legitimate purposes but can also be used to bypass AV detection.

Among commercially available tools, The Enigma Protector in particular can successfully be used to bypass antivirus products.

<h2> <span style="color:red" >  2. In-Memory Evasion </span> </h2>
In-Memory Injections, also known as PE Injection is a popular technique used to bypass antivirus products. Rather than obfuscating a malicious binary, creating new sections, or changing existing permissions, this technique instead focuses on the manipulation of volatile memory. One of the main benefits of this technique is that it does not write any files to disk, which is one the main areas of focus for most antivirus products.

<h3> A. Remote Process Memory Injection </h3>
This technique attempts to inject the payload into another valid PE that is not malicious. The most common method of doing this is by leveraging a set of Windows APIs.

1. OpenProcess --> to get valid HANDLE
2. VirtualAllocEx
3. WriteProcessMemory
4. CreateRemoteThread

<h3> B. Reflective DLL Injection </h3>
Unlike regular DLL injection, which implies loading a malicious DLL from disk using the LoadLibrary API, this technique attempts to load a DLL stored by the attacker in the process memory. 

The main challenge of implementing this technique is that LoadLibrary does not support loading a DLL from memory. Furthermore, the Windows operating system does not expose any APIs that can handle this either. Attackers who choose to use this technique must write their own version of the API that does not rely on a disk-based DLL.

<h3> C. Process Hollowing </h3>
When using process hollowing to bypass antivirus software, attackers first launch a non-malicious process in a suspended state. Once launched, the image of the process is removed from memory and replaced with a malicious executable image. Finally, the process is then resumed and malicious code is executed instead of the legitimate process.

<h3> D. Inline hooking </h3>
As the name suggests, this technique involves modifying memory and introducing a hook (instructions that redirect the code execution) into a function to point the execution flow to our malicious code. Upon executing our malicious code, the flow will return back to the modified function and resume execution, appearing as if only the original code had executed.