## A note about Local Administrator Password Reuse

Internal password spraying is not only possible with domain user accounts. If you obtain administrative access and the NTLM password hash or cleartext password for the local administrator account (or another privileged local account), this can be attempted across multiple hosts in the network. Local administrator account password reuse is widespread due to the use of gold images in automated deployments and the perceived ease of management by enforcing the same password across multiple hosts.

CrackMapExec is a handy tool for attempting this attack. It is worth targeting high-value hosts such as `SQL` or `Microsoft Exchange` servers, as they are more likely to have a highly privileged user logged in or have their credentials persistent in memory.

When working with local administrator accounts, one consideration is password re-use or common password formats across accounts. If we find a desktop host with the local administrator account password set to something unique such as `$desktop%@admin123`, it might be worth attempting `$server%@admin123` against servers. Also, if we find non-standard local administrator accounts such as `bsmith`, we may find that the password is reused for a similarly named domain user account. The same principle may apply to domain accounts. If we retrieve the password for a user named `ajones`, it is worth trying the same password on their admin account (if the user has one), for example, `ajones_adm`, to see if they are reusing their passwords. This is also common in domain trust situations. We may obtain valid credentials for a user in domain A that are valid for a user with the same or similar username in domain B or vice-versa.

Sometimes we may only retrieve the NTLM hash for the local administrator account from the local SAM database. In these instances, we can spray the NT hash across an entire subnet (or multiple subnets) to hunt for local administrator accounts with the same password set. In the example below, we attempt to authenticate to all hosts in a /23 network using the built-in local administrator account NT hash retrieved from another machine. The `--local-auth` flag will tell the tool only to attempt to log in one time on each machine which removes any risk of account lockout. `Make sure this flag is set so we don't potentially lock out the built-in administrator for the domain`. By default, without the local auth option set, the tool will attempt to authenticate using the current domain, which could quickly result in account lockouts.

This technique, while effective, is quite noisy and is not a good choice for any assessments that require stealth. It is always worth looking for this issue during penetration tests, even if it is not part of our path to compromise the domain, as it is a common issue and should be highlighted for our clients. One way to remediate this issue is using the free Microsoft tool [Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=46899) to have Active Directory manage local administrator passwords and enforce a unique password on each host that rotates on a set interval.