# Function call example with printf
Before we can use a function from `libc`, we have to import it first and then specify the `libc` library for dynamic linking when linking our code with `ld`.
## 1) Importing
First, to import an external `libc` function, we can use the `extern` instruction at the beginning of our code, as follows :
```nasm
global  _start
extern  printf
```

## 2) Saving registers
Let's define a new procedure, `printFib`, to hold our function call instructions. The very first step is to save to the stack any registers we are using, which are `rax` and `rbx`, as follows :
```nasm
printFib:
    push rax        ; push registers to stack
    push rbx
    ; function call
    pop rbx         ; restore registers from stack
    pop rax
    ret
```

## 3) Function arguments
First, we need to find out what arguments are accepted by the `printf` function by using `man -s 3` for `library functions manual` (as we can see in `man man`):
```shell-session
yuwie@htb[/htb]$ man -s 3 printf

...SNIP...
       int printf(const char *format, ...);
```

First, we can create a variable that contains the output format to pass it as the first argument. The `printf` man page also details various print formats. We want to print an integer, so we can use the `%d` format, as follows:
```nasm
global  _start
extern  printf

section .data
    message db "Fibonacci Sequence:", 0x0a
    outFormat db  "%d", 0x0a, 0x00
```

Note: We ended the format with a null character `0x00`, as this is the string terminator in `printf`, and we must terminate any string with it.

This can be our first argument, and `rbx` as our second argument, which `printf` will place as `%d`. So, let's move both arguments to their respective registers, as follows:
```nasm
printFib:
    push rax            ; push registers to stack
    push rbx
    mov rdi, outFormat  ; set 1st argument (Print Format)
    mov rsi, rbx        ; set 2nd argument (Fib Number)
    pop rbx             ; restore registers from stack
    pop rax
    ret
```

## 4) Stack alignment
Whenever we want to make a `call` to a function, we must ensure that the `Top Stack Pointer (rsp)` is aligned by the `16-byte` boundary from the `_start` function stack.
This requirement is mainly there for processor performance efficiency. Some functions (like in `libc`) are programed to crash if this boundary is not fixed to ensure performance efficiency.
This may be a bit confusing, but the critical thing to remember is that `we should have 16-bytes (or a multiple of 16) on top of the stack before making a call.` We can count the number of (un`pop`ed) `push` instructions and (un`ret`urned) `call` instructions, and we will get how many 8-bytes have been pushed to the stack.

## 5) Function call
```nasm
printFib:
    push rax            ; push registers to stack
    push rbx
    mov rdi, outFormat  ; set 1st argument (Print Format)
    mov rsi, rbx        ; set 2nd argument (Fib Number)
    call printf         ; printf(outFormat, rbx)
    pop rbx             ; restore registers from stack
    pop rax
    ret
```

## 6) Dynamic Linker
We can now assemble our code with `nasm`. When we link our code with `ld`, we should tell it to do dynamic linking with the `libc` library. Otherwise, it would not know how to fetch the imported `printf` function. We can do so with the `-lc --dynamic-linker /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2` flags, as follows:
```bash
yuwie@htb[/htb]$ nasm -f elf64 fib.s &&  ld fib.o -o fib -lc --dynamic-linker /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 && ./fib

1
1
2
3
5
8
```