# Advices for writing a shellcode
The following code does not follow the shellcode requirements. For example,
- There is an empty line of instruction, which could potentially break the code.
- Furthermore, our `Hello World` string is nowhere to be seen. 
- We also see many red `00`'s, which we'll get into in a bit.

```bash
$ pwn disasm '48be0020400000000000bf01000000ba12000000b8010000000f05b83c000000bf000000000f05' -c 'amd64'
   0:    48 be 00 20 40 00 00     movabs rsi,  0x402000
   7:    00 00 00
   a:    bf 01 00 00 00           mov    edi,  0x1
   f:    ba 12 00 00 00           mov    edx,  0x12
  14:    b8 01 00 00 00           mov    eax,  0x1
  19:    0f 05                    syscall
  1b:    b8 3c 00 00 00           mov    eax,  0x3c
  20:    bf 00 00 00 00           mov    edi,  0x0
  25:    0f 05                    syscall
```

To be able to produce a working shellcode, there are three main `Shellcoding Requirements` our assembly code must meet:
1.  Does not contain variables
2.  Does not refer to direct memory addresses
3.  Does not contain any NULL bytes `00`

# Example (x64)
We will start from this code :
```nasm
global _start

section .data
    message db "Hello HTB Academy!"

section .text
_start:
    mov rsi, message
    mov rdi, 1
    mov rdx, 18
    mov rax, 1
    syscall

    mov rax, 60
    mov rdi, 0
    syscall
```

#### 1) Remove variables
To execute our shellcode, we must load it in the `text` memory segment and lose the ability to write any variables. `Hence, our entire shellcode must be under '.text' in the assembly code.`

There are many techniques we can use to avoid using variables, like:
1.  Moving immediate strings to registers
2.  Pushing strings to the Stack, and then use them

##### Starting point
```nasm
  mov rsi, 'Academy!'
```

However, a 64-bit register can only hold 16 bytes, which may not be enough for larger strings. So, our other option is to rely on the Stack by pushing our string 16-bytes at a time (in reverse order), and then using `rsp` as our string pointer, as follows:
```nasm
    push 'y!'
    push 'B Academ'
    push 'Hello HT'
    mov rsi, rsp
```

However, this would exceed the allowed bounds of immediate strings `push`, which is a `dword` (4-bytes) at a time. So, we will instead move our string to `rbx`, and then push `rbx` to the Stack, as follows:

##### Ending point
```nasm
  mov rbx, 'y!'
    push rbx
    mov rbx, 'B Academ'
    push rbx
    mov rbx, 'Hello HT'
    push rbx
    mov rsi, rsp
```
Note: Whenever we push a string to the stack, we have to push a `00` before it to terminate the string. However, we don't have to worry about that in this case, since we can specify the print length for the `write` syscall.

#### 2) Remove addresses
If we ever had any calls or references to direct memory addresses, we can fix that by:
1.  Replacing with calls to labels or rip-relative addresses (for `calls` and `loops`)
2.  Push to the Stack and use `rsp` as the address (for `mov` and other assembly instructions)

If we are efficient while writing our assembly code, we may not have to fix these types of issues

#### 3) Remove NullBytes
NULL characters (or `0x00`) are used as string terminators in assembly and machine code, and so if they are encountered, they will cause issues and may lead the program to terminate early.
This commonly happens when moving a small integer into a large register, so the integer gets padded with an extra `00` to fit the larger register's size.
For example, in our code above, when we use `mov rax, 1`, it will be moving `00 00 00 01` into `rax`, such that the number size would match the register size.

To avoid having these NULL bytes, `we must use registers that match our data size.` 

For the previous example, we can use the more efficient instruction `mov al, 1`, as we have been learning throughout the module. However, before we do so, we must first zero out the `rax` register with `xor rax, rax`, to ensure our data does not get mixed with older data.

## Final code
```nasm
global _start

section .data
    message db "Hello HTB Academy!"

section .text
_start:
    xor rbx, rbx
    mov bx, 'y!'
    push rbx
    mov rbx, 'B Academ'
    push rbx
    mov rbx, 'Hello HT'
    push rbx
    mov rsi, rsp

    xor rdi, rdi
    mov dil, 1
    xor rdx, rdx
    mov dl, 18
    xor rax, rax
    mov al, 1
    syscall

    xor rax, rax
    mov al, 60
    xor rdi, rdi
    mov dil, 0
    syscall
```

Extracting the hexadecimal format (shellcode)
```bash
┌──(pwn)─(romain㉿fedora)-[~/Téléchargements/Assembly_course/python_and_shellcode]
└─$ python extract_shellcode_x64.py ../hello
4831db66bb79215348bb422041636164656d5348bb48656c6c6f204854534889e64831ff40b7014831d2b2124831c0b0010f054831c0b03c4831ff40b7000f05
```

It's working 
```bash
┌──(pwn)─(romain㉿fedora)-[~/Téléchargements/Assembly_course/python_and_shellcode]
└─$ python load_and_execute_shellcode_x64.py "4831db66bb79215348bb422041636164656d5348bb48656c6c6f204854534889e64831ff40b7014831d2b2124831c0b0010f054831c0b03c4831ff40b7000f05"
Hello HTB Academy!$ 
```

# Tools to generate shellcodes
- Msfvenom
- Shellcraft (from pwntools)
- Exploit DB
- Shell-Storm