# 4. PE file format - NT Header (From 0x100 to 0x1F8)
An RVA (Relative Virtual Address) is just an offset from where the image was loaded in memory (the Image Base). So to translate an RVA into an absolute virtual address you need to add the value of the RVA to the value of the Image Base. PE files rely heavily on the use of RVAs as we’ll see later.

### NT Headers (IMAGE_NT_HEADERS)
```C
typedef struct _IMAGE_NT_HEADERS64 {
    DWORD Signature;
    IMAGE_FILE_HEADER FileHeader;
    IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER64 OptionalHeader;
} IMAGE_NT_HEADERS64, *PIMAGE_NT_HEADERS64;

typedef struct _IMAGE_NT_HEADERS {
    DWORD Signature;
    IMAGE_FILE_HEADER FileHeader;
    IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER32 OptionalHeader;
} IMAGE_NT_HEADERS32, *PIMAGE_NT_HEADERS32;
```
- It’s worth mentioning that this structure is defined in two different versions, one for 32-bit executables (Also named `PE32` executables) named `IMAGE_NT_HEADERS` and one for 64-bit executables (Also named `PE32+` executables) named `IMAGE_NT_HEADERS64`. 
- The main difference between the two versions is the used version of `IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER` structure which has two versions, `IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER32` for 32-bit executables and `IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER64` for 64-bit executables.

### 1) Signature
First member of the NT headers structure is the PE signature, it’s a `DWORD` which means that it occupies 4 bytes.  
It always has a fixed value of `0x50450000` which translates to `PE\0\0` in ASCII.

### 2) File Header (IMAGE_FILE_HEADER)
Also called “The COFF File Header”, the File Header is a structure that holds some information about the PE file.
```c
typedef struct _IMAGE_FILE_HEADER {
    WORD    Machine;
    WORD    NumberOfSections;
    DWORD   TimeDateStamp;
    DWORD   PointerToSymbolTable;
    DWORD   NumberOfSymbols;
    WORD    SizeOfOptionalHeader;
    WORD    Characteristics;
} IMAGE_FILE_HEADER, *PIMAGE_FILE_HEADER;
```

It’s a simple structure with 7 members:
-   **`Machine`:** This is a number that indicates the type of machine (CPU Architecture) the executable is targeting, this field can have a lot of values, but we’re only interested in two of them, `0x8864` for `AMD64` and `0x14c` for `i386`. For a complete list of possible values you can check the [official Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/pe-format).
-   **`NumberOfSections`:** This field holds the number of sections (or the number of section headers aka. the size of the section table.).
-   **`TimeDateStamp`:** A `unix` timestamp that indicates when the file was created.
-   **`PointerToSymbolTable` and `NumberOfSymbols`:** These two fields hold the file offset to the COFF symbol table and the number of entries in that symbol table, however they get set to `0` which means that no COFF symbol table is present, this is done because the COFF debugging information is deprecated.
-   **`SizeOfOptionalHeader`:** The size of the Optional Header.
-   **`Characteristics`:** A flag that indicates the attributes of the file, these attributes can be things like the file being executable, the file being a system file and not a user program, and a lot of other things. A complete list of these flags can be found on the [official Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/pe-format).

## Important link
- https://0xrick.github.io/win-internals/pe4/#file-header-image_file_header