# 4.1 PE file format - Optional Header (From 0x118 to 0x1F8)
As mentioned earlier, there are two versions of the Optional Header, one for 32-bit executables and one for 64-bit executables.  
The two versions are different in two aspects:

-   **The size of the structure itself (or the number of members defined within the structure):** `IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER32` has 31 members while `IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER64` only has 30 members, that additional member in the 32-bit version is a DWORD named `BaseOfData` which holds an RVA of the beginning of the data section.
-   **The data type of some of the members:** The following 5 members of the Optional Header structure are defined as `DWORD` in the 32-bit version and as `ULONGLONG` in the 64-bit version:
    -   **`ImageBase`**
    -   **`SizeOfStackReserve`**
    -   **`SizeOfStackCommit`**
    -   **`SizeOfHeapReserve`**
    -   **`SizeOfHeapCommit`**

## Structure
#### x86 architecture
```C
typedef struct _IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER {
    WORD    Magic;
    BYTE    MajorLinkerVersion;
    BYTE    MinorLinkerVersion;
    DWORD   SizeOfCode;
    DWORD   SizeOfInitializedData;
    DWORD   SizeOfUninitializedData;
    DWORD   AddressOfEntryPoint;
    DWORD   BaseOfCode;
    DWORD   BaseOfData;
    DWORD   ImageBase;
    DWORD   SectionAlignment;
    DWORD   FileAlignment;
    WORD    MajorOperatingSystemVersion;
    WORD    MinorOperatingSystemVersion;
    WORD    MajorImageVersion;
    WORD    MinorImageVersion;
    WORD    MajorSubsystemVersion;
    WORD    MinorSubsystemVersion;
    DWORD   Win32VersionValue;
    DWORD   SizeOfImage;
    DWORD   SizeOfHeaders;
    DWORD   CheckSum;
    WORD    Subsystem;
    WORD    DllCharacteristics;
    DWORD   SizeOfStackReserve;
    DWORD   SizeOfStackCommit;
    DWORD   SizeOfHeapReserve;
    DWORD   SizeOfHeapCommit;
    DWORD   LoaderFlags;
    DWORD   NumberOfRvaAndSizes;
    IMAGE_DATA_DIRECTORY DataDirectory[IMAGE_NUMBEROF_DIRECTORY_ENTRIES];
} IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER32, *PIMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER32;
```
#### x64 architecture
```C
typedef struct _IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER64 {
    WORD        Magic;
    BYTE        MajorLinkerVersion;
    BYTE        MinorLinkerVersion;
    DWORD       SizeOfCode;
    DWORD       SizeOfInitializedData;
    DWORD       SizeOfUninitializedData;
    DWORD       AddressOfEntryPoint;
    DWORD       BaseOfCode;
    ULONGLONG   ImageBase;
    DWORD       SectionAlignment;
    DWORD       FileAlignment;
    WORD        MajorOperatingSystemVersion;
    WORD        MinorOperatingSystemVersion;
    WORD        MajorImageVersion;
    WORD        MinorImageVersion;
    WORD        MajorSubsystemVersion;
    WORD        MinorSubsystemVersion;
    DWORD       Win32VersionValue;
    DWORD       SizeOfImage;
    DWORD       SizeOfHeaders;
    DWORD       CheckSum;
    WORD        Subsystem;
    WORD        DllCharacteristics;
    ULONGLONG   SizeOfStackReserve;
    ULONGLONG   SizeOfStackCommit;
    ULONGLONG   SizeOfHeapReserve;
    ULONGLONG   SizeOfHeapCommit;
    DWORD       LoaderFlags;
    DWORD       NumberOfRvaAndSizes;
    IMAGE_DATA_DIRECTORY DataDirectory[IMAGE_NUMBEROF_DIRECTORY_ENTRIES];
} IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER64, *PIMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER64;
```

-   **`Magic`:** Microsoft documentation describes this field as an integer that identifies the state of the image, the documentation mentions three common values:
    
    -   **`0x10B`:** Identifies the image as a `PE32` executable.
    -   **`0x20B`:** Identifies the image as a `PE32+` executable.
    -   **`0x107`:** Identifies the image as a ROM image.
    
    The value of this field is what determines whether the executable is 32-bit or 64-bit, `IMAGE_FILE_HEADER.Machine` is ignored by the Windows PE loader.
    
-   **`MajorLinkerVersion` and `MinorLinkerVersion`:** The linker major and minor version numbers.
    
-   **`SizeOfCode`:** This field holds the size of the code (`.text`) section, or the sum of all code sections if there are multiple sections.
    
-   **`SizeOfInitializedData`:** This field holds the size of the initialized data (`.data`) section, or the sum of all initialized data sections if there are multiple sections.
    
-   **`SizeOfUninitializedData`:** This field holds the size of the uninitialized data (`.bss`) section, or the sum of all uninitialized data sections if there are multiple sections.
    
-   **`AddressOfEntryPoint`:** An RVA of the entry point when the file is loaded into memory. The documentation states that for program images this relative address points to the starting address and for device drivers it points to initialization function. For DLLs an entry point is optional, and in the case of entry point absence the `AddressOfEntryPoint` field is set to `0`.
    
-   **`BaseOfCode`:** An RVA of the start of the code section when the file is loaded into memory.
    
-   **`BaseOfData` (`PE32` Only):** An RVA of the start of the data section when the file is loaded into memory.
    
-   **`ImageBase`:** This field holds the preferred address of the first byte of image when loaded into memory (the preferred base address), this value must be a multiple of 64K. Due to memory protections like ASLR, and a lot of other reasons, the address specified by this field is almost never used, in this case the PE loader chooses an unused memory range to load the image into, after loading the image into that address the loader goes into a process called the relocating where it fixes the constant addresses within the image to work with the new image base, there’s a special section that holds information about places that will need fixing if relocation is needed, that section is called the relocation section (`.reloc`), more on that in the upcoming posts.
    
-   **`SectionAlignment`:** This field holds a value that gets used for section alignment in memory (in bytes), sections are aligned in memory boundaries that are multiples of this value. The documentation states that this value defaults to the page size for the architecture and it can’t be less than the value of `FileAlignment`.
    
-   **`FileAlignment`:** Similar to `SectionAligment` this field holds a value that gets used for section raw data alignment **on disk** (in bytes), if the size of the actual data in a section is less than the `FileAlignment` value, the rest of the chunk gets padded with zeroes to keep the alignment boundaries. The documentation states that this value should be a power of 2 between 512 and 64K, and if the value of `SectionAlignment` is less than the architecture’s page size then the sizes of `FileAlignment` and `SectionAlignment` must match.
    
-   **`MajorOperatingSystemVersion`, `MinorOperatingSystemVersion`, `MajorImageVersion`, `MinorImageVersion`, `MajorSubsystemVersion` and `MinorSubsystemVersion`:** These members of the structure specify the major version number of the required operating system, the minor version number of the required operating system, the major version number of the image, the minor version number of the image, the major version number of the subsystem and the minor version number of the subsystem respectively.
    
-   **`Win32VersionValue`:** A reserved field that the documentation says should be set to `0`.
    
-   **`SizeOfImage:`** The size of the image file (in bytes), including all headers. It gets rounded up to a multiple of `SectionAlignment` because this value is used when loading the image into memory.
    
-   **`SizeOfHeaders`:** The combined size of the DOS stub, PE header (NT Headers), and section headers rounded up to a multiple of `FileAlignment`.
    
-   **`CheckSum`:** A checksum of the image file, it’s used to validate the image at load time.
    
-   **`Subsystem`:** This field specifies the Windows subsystem (if any) that is required to run the image, A complete list of the possible values of this field can be found on the [official Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/pe-format).
    
-   **`DLLCharacteristics`:** This field defines some characteristics of the executable image file, like if it’s `NX` compatible and if it can be relocated at run time. I have no idea why it’s named `DLLCharacteristics`, it exists within normal executable image files and it defines characteristics that can apply to normal executable files. A complete list of the possible flags for `DLLCharacteristics` can be found on the [official Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/pe-format).
    
-   **`SizeOfStackReserve`, `SizeOfStackCommit`, `SizeOfHeapReserve` and `SizeOfHeapCommit`:** These fields specify the size of the stack to reserve, the size of the stack to commit, the size of the local heap space to reserve and the size of the local heap space to commit respectively.
    
-   **`LoaderFlags`:** A reserved field that the documentation says should be set to `0`.
    
-   **`NumberOfRvaAndSizes` :** Size of the `DataDirectory` array.
    
-   **`DataDirectory`:** An array of `IMAGE_DATA_DIRECTORY` structures. We will talk about this in the next post.

## Important link
- https://0xrick.github.io/win-internals/pe4/#optional-header-image_optional_header