# PE file format - Sections & Sections Headers
## Sections
Sections are the containers of the actual data of the executable file, they occupy the rest of the PE file after the headers, precisely after the section headers.  
Some sections have special names that indicate their purpose, we’ll go over some of them, and a full list of these names can be found on the [official Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/pe-format) under the “Special Sections” section.

-   **`.text`:** Contains the executable code of the program.
-   **`.data`:** Contains the initialized data.
-   **`.bss`:** Contains uninitialized data.
-   **`.rdata`:** Contains read-only initialized data.
-   **`.edata`:** Contains the export tables.
-   **`.idata`:** Contains the import tables.
-   **`.reloc`:** Contains image relocation information.
-   **`.rsrc`:** Contains resources used by the program, these include images, icons or even embedded binaries.
-   **`.tls`:** (**T**hread **L**ocal **S**torage), provides storage for every executing thread of the program.

## Section Headers
After the Optional Header and before the sections comes the Section Headers. These headers contain information about the sections of the PE file.

```C
typedef struct _IMAGE_SECTION_HEADER {
    BYTE    Name[IMAGE_SIZEOF_SHORT_NAME];
    union {
            DWORD   PhysicalAddress;
            DWORD   VirtualSize;
    } Misc;
    DWORD   VirtualAddress;
    DWORD   SizeOfRawData;
    DWORD   PointerToRawData;
    DWORD   PointerToRelocations;
    DWORD   PointerToLinenumbers;
    WORD    NumberOfRelocations;
    WORD    NumberOfLinenumbers;
    DWORD   Characteristics;
} IMAGE_SECTION_HEADER, *PIMAGE_SECTION_HEADER;
```

-   **`Name`:** First field of the Section Header, a byte array of the size `IMAGE_SIZEOF_SHORT_NAME` that holds the name of the section. `IMAGE_SIZEOF_SHORT_NAME` has the value of `8` meaning that a section name can’t be longer than 8 characters. For longer names the official documentation mentions a work-around by filling this field with an offset in the string table, however executable images do not use a string table so this limitation of 8 characters holds for executable images.
-   **`PhysicalAddress` or `VirtualSize`:** A `union` defines multiple names for the same thing, this field contains the total size of the section when it’s loaded in memory.
-   **`VirtualAddress`:** The documentation states that for executable images this field holds the address of the first byte of the section relative to the image base when loaded in memory, and for object files it holds the address of the first byte of the section before relocation is applied.
-   **`SizeOfRawData`:** This field contains the size of the section on disk, it must be a multiple of `IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER.FileAlignment`.  
    `SizeOfRawData` and `VirtualSize` can be different, we’ll discuss the reason for this later in the post.
-   **`PointerToRawData`:** A pointer to the first page of the section within the file, for executable images it must be a multiple of `IMAGE_OPTIONAL_HEADER.FileAlignment`.
-   **`PointerToRelocations`:** A file pointer to the beginning of relocation entries for the section. It’s set to `0` for executable files.
-   **`PointerToLineNumbers`:** A file pointer to the beginning of COFF line-number entries for the section. It’s set to `0` because COFF debugging information is deprecated.
-   **`NumberOfRelocations`:** The number of relocation entries for the section, it’s set to `0` for executable images.
-   **`NumberOfLinenumbers`:** The number of COFF line-number entries for the section, it’s set to `0` because COFF debugging information is deprecated.
-   **`Characteristics`:** Flags that describe the characteristics of the section.  
    These characteristics are things like if the section contains executable code, contains initialized/uninitialized data, can be shared in memory.  
    A complete list of section characteristics flags can be found on the [official Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/pe-format).


## Important link
- https://0xrick.github.io/win-internals/pe5/#sections-and-section-headers